310 320 that's when I'm going to say
yeah I'm ready not 310 when I'm at about
320 so I think I think give me about 2
months a carryover out of the inz so I
need to really step it up with this I'm
going to turn on some tunes and I don't
want four reps I want five
reps this could be
ugly there's a [__] light in my eyes
but we got
there I think we're on okay you ready
today's deadlift
Hopefully, I'm strong today. I'll let
you know in a
moment. Yeah. Guess what? My belt is on
from the first
[Music]
[Applause]
set. And it's not because I need it.
It's because I want it I want it to feel
the exact same every single set. Right?
So, look how loose I put my belt on for
the deadlift. I also put it high over
the top of my rib cage. And the reason
why I do the high belt setting is
because when I bend down, like I
brace. And then when I bend down, it
doesn't pinch my fat or dig into any of
the bones. It's over the top of the
ribs. So, when it's here, sometimes it
digs into the ribs and that's
uncomfortable. And sometimes it pinches
the fat. So, for me, everyone's
different, but you should try this
because most of the people that I work
with like this as well. Here's a common
thing. People say things like, "For
deadlifts, I hate belts. They just don't
work for me in a deadlift." And I say,
"That's cuz you haven't tried this yet."
Right? Looser and higher. Because people
put the belt on in the same position as
they put their squats, but they're not
bent over as much as what they are in a
squat. So, they just take the belt off
and they say, "No, for me, belt is
weak." Well, I believe you should try
the high belt setting, which is loose.
So look how loose it is, right? But then
we
go. So I push my whole body into
it and it's just so strong, comfortable
and strong. And what happens is when I
bend over, it doesn't interfere with my
bottom
position. That's the biggest problem.
That's one of the reasons why people,
and maybe you at home, check it out. If
you use a belt in the deadlift and it
feels really, really uncomfortable, you
should try that. Uh we're going to do
squats after this and I'm going to teach
you how uh how I hold the belt or how I
use the belt in a squat. It's a
different belt actually. This is the
belt that I use for a squat because it's
tighter, right? And belt is here for the
deadlift. The belt is here and tighter
for the squat. And the brace is more or
less the same, right? So the way that I
do my brace is for a squat and deadlift
as a power lifter. So this is different
for weightlifters who clean and jerk.
You'll see a weightlifter who does sorry
clean and jerk and snatch. they they
have a big arch. They have to really,
you know, head up and arch this way,
which is what I say don't do in a squat
and deadlift because unfortunately when
you extend your spine this way and arch
your spine this way, what you're doing
is elongating your your six-pack abs.
So, there's a lot more to your core than
just your six-pack abs. But check this
out. All a muscle knows how to do is
grab the origin and the insertion. And
when it contracts, it pulls those two
parts together. So the six-pack abs
attach to the top of the well the pel
the front of the pelvis to the bottom of
the rib cage. And when they contract
what's the action? It pulls those two
points together. So what's that? That's
this right. So if you're going here what
are you doing to your abs? You're
stretching it. You're not contracting
it. Of course they're not the only
muscles involved in bracing your core
but it is a large part of it. And if you
want to contract those muscles that's
what you do. So think about so this is
where people say the queue ribs
down right? All right. So, that's how I
brace. Ready? I take a big breath and I
fill my
belly and then ribs down and then I
maintain that from start to finish.
Do you maximally inhale or
um
No. So, if I'm maximally
inhaling, you know, I'd probably be
filling my chest up as well. And that's
how I would be. I'd have my back
extended. That's my maximum exhalation.
But I don't do that. I keep my shoulders
down and I I fill my belly as much as I
can. If I wanted to breathe more, I
could by
going. But I don't do that. Okay. Okay.
So, I keep my rib my shoulders down, my
ribs down, my And I think about pushing
everything into the
belt and maintaining that same fixed
rigid position from start to finish,
which is not quite neutral or straight.
I don't really care for neutral or
straight. If it ends up being, you know,
what you consider neutral or straight,
that's fantastic. I say rigid. So, lock
on. So, for some people, their upper
back is is rounded. But I want you to be
in that same position from start to
finish, right? Which is um your muscles
controlling your torso, not being pulled
out of position, right? Because the
weight's too heavy and your muscles
aren't strong enough to hold that
position. Therefore, you're resting on
your spine, you know? And if that
happens in a competition, fine. But if
you train that way every single time
you're coming into the gym, that's when
you know you're really pushing beyond
the limits of what your muscles can
handle. And when you do that session
after session and you're not progressing
and your back is hurting, maybe that's
why maybe you're going too heavy and
training too hard with your deadlifts.
So I say save that kind of like max
effort for competition day. Don't max
out on your deadlifts every week. Hear
me out. Have you injured your back in a
deadlift? And did you do it when you
first started deadlifting? It's probably
because you realize that deadlift is
your strongest exercise. True. Is a
deadlift your strongest exercise. Most
times it is. I'm not talking about rack
pulls. Of course, that's stronger. I'm
not talking about machine exercises
either. Okay. But if the deadlift is
your strongest exercise, which it is on
most people, don't get too excited and
think, "Wow, this is strong. I see all
these amazing deadlifters um on on
Instagram and and strongman and
powerlifting. I want to be a great
deadlifter as well. Let's keep on maxing
out every single week. Your backgrounds
week after week." And then all of a
sudden you've got a sore back and you
wondered why. Don't do
that. Now I'm just going to do singles
the whole way up. The whole way up.
What's the plan? The plan is to go up 10
kg from last week. So it's two sets of
one on 290
kg. Last week I did 280. The week before
I did 270. Uh, and then the plan was to
finish on two sets of one at 300 next
week. But the plan is to do it
comfortably. Um, but you can want all
you want. It doesn't always work out
that way. So, you can't predict. Last
week, I did 280 and it was kind of slow,
but also, you know, really good
technique. So, it's pretty comfortable.
I wasn't maxing out. I wasn't grinding
out. So, that's how I want this to look
like today. And then after that, we're
going to do some stiletto squats and
work the quadriceps. And I'm going to
introduce you to new concept with the
knee sleeves that I've decided to change
with my training. It's going to make it
harder today. Actually, harder to lift a
heavy weight, but actually in the long
run, it's going to be better for
building my strength. The knee sleeves
that I've been using, those um they're
the new really really stiff knee
sleeves. Unfortunately, they give a lot
of support, which means that your quads
don't have to work as much, especially
in that bottom position. It really
supports knee the knee joint in the
bottom position which means you're not
relying on your muscles as
much. You don't use the muscles as much.
I'm going to be using my softer knee
sleeves today which in theory will make
the movement harder. So last week I did
stiletto squats 200 kg uh for four reps.
That was before my seminar if you
remember. And the objective of today was
to hit five reps but when I changed
those sleeves uh we don't know. So, this
will be a good indicator of how much I
actually get out of those sleeves. We'll
see. So, now we're at a point where if I
just do bumpers the whole way, it won't
fit. And I know a lot of you at home
will be thinking, why don't you just use
these powerlifting plates the whole
time? I'll tell you why. Cuz I don't
like it. It's comfortable for me to have
more plates on the bar. It makes it bend
more. It feels nicer and softer when I
pick it up off the floor. Is that
cheating?
No, because I'm training, you know, and
in competition, I'll tell you what
happens. Um, the bar will bend more
because there'll be more weight on it,
right? So, the objective is 290 and it's
going to go red, red, red, blue, blue,
blue, and I'm going to go big plate,
small plate, big plate, small plate, so
that it fits on the bar and still looks
nice. Everything's taken out of context.
You know what I mean? What's wrong with
everyone? Hey, I got a trick for you
guys. Emmery
board. Hang on a second. Come check this
out. Charlene's doing sumo pause
deadlift. You're on camera. Charlene,
just ignore us. Okay, just ignore us.
So, guess what she's doing? She's out
like always. Yeah, that's right. So,
she's doing Paul's def sorry, Paul's
sumo deadlift as her secondary exercise.
So, she injured her hip and it hurts her
to do sumo. Well, it hurt her to do sumo
for the last few months, which is why
she hasn't been doing it. She can do
sumo deadlifts with 140 kg. So, double
that, right? So, this was the discussion
that I had with her. She wants to
reintroduce a sumo deadlift. Just
because she's strong doesn't mean you
should go as heavy as you can,
especially if that's the exercise that
injured you. So, what we said was let's
introduce it as a secondary exercise.
Her first exercise of the day was
conventional for 4x4 on 100 kg. So, a
lot heavier than that. And her sumo is
stronger than her her conventional,
right? So, 70 kg on this is actually
quite easy, but that's the goal, right?
So, her first exercise of the day, she's
had a really great session. Uh she
strengthened her body. Now that it's the
secondary exercise, you don't have to
worry about, you know, walking home and
feeling like, I didn't really get much
of a session because it was only
technique work and I went super light.
No, you didn't. You went super light on
the technique work. So, she can go home
and tick off that box that she had a
great session and now this was the
instruction. So, we go to reintroduce
the movement that once caused pain. What
you want to do is go super light and
leave many, many repetitions in reserve.
So the discussion was to start on 60,
see how that feels, do a set of five,
and then go up by 5 kilograms. If that
feels easy, go up by another five
kilograms, and then leave it there. So
this is where a lot of people get
carried away. And they go, um, oh, it
feels great. Let's just keep going up
and up and up and up, and then bang, I'm
injured again. So the instruction is
just walk away after three sets of five.
And I hope you feel like you could do
more. The next thing is you want to feel
the next 24 hours how it feels because
that's what can happen with injuries.
Uh, you know, the adrenaline's high,
you're nice and warm, and you feel
great, but then you go home and you cool
down, it's like, "Oh, that injury again.
I've hurt myself again. Stupid me. I
went too hard too fast." Anyway, so that
was the objective. Did you see the form
on that one? It was a good one. Anyway,
let's go back to my tips. Emmery board.
So, this is what you file your nails
with. But what I'm doing is I'm filing
my calluses on my hands, right? So, it's
interesting. Thor Bjönson, if you feel
his hands, they're very soft.
Okay. He cares for his hands because if
you don't if you don't care for your
hands and you have these calluses and
you go for a max attempt for him, he
doesn't do deadlift with without straps.
So, it doesn't really um happen with
deadlifts, but he does a lot of holding
events like farmers carries and frames.
And if you rip your callus off, very
painful and it'll take you out of a
competition. The pain is that bad.
People think, "No, it's just a little
bit of skin." Those who have torn
calluses know how hard it is to hold on
to anything after that. It just hurts.
no matter how big and strong you are.
So, the best way to not have, you know,
torn calluses or rip your hand when you
deadlift is to have soft hands. And this
is the best tool. I believe everyone's
got their tools, you know, um, palm
stones or or whatever it might be. These
emery boards really fine and it makes
your hands soft like a baby.
Beautiful. Does it look beautiful? Not
really. A You had my hopes up. Yeah. But
right now, they're kind of smooth. So
there's no big thick hard skin to get
caught on that knurling and and get
ripped off. So care for your skin is
pretty important. Care for the skin on
your hands is pretty important for the
deadlift. People are going to comment
about the hygiene and all that stuff in
the gym that you're doing your gym. This
is my
gym. This is my gym. So maybe they'll
comment about the hygiene. But um I
don't know. Is it unhygienic? Maybe.
Comment below. Tell me. Am I being
unhygienic? It is dead
skin. All right, here's my rule. Whether
you like it or not, I'm going to give
you tips on my technique as I come in
for my warm-up sets. As it gets heavier,
I'm going to relax because I need to get
my head on. Um, so what I'm going to be
doing is um just giving you a few tips
so that every week when you come in and
watch, it's a reminder. So, a lot of the
times, just because I've said it once
doesn't mean you don't have to hear it
again. A lot of the times when I'm
queuing people, I say the same thing
over and over just to ingrain that in
your head so you don't have to think
about it anymore. So, if you feel like
it's a bit repetitive, I'm not sorry.
I'm doing that on purpose. But anyway,
why should you listen to me? Because I'm
the coach of Thor Bjönson, who has the
biggest conventional deadlift on the
planet, 501 kg. And these are the
techniques that we use. Hey, come and
check this out. Uh, I'll get it after.
It's uh I've got one of the plates that
he used uh with the thank you and the
signature and all that stuff. Thank you
to his
coach. But anyway, that's why you should
listen to me because it's the best
technique in the world. All right, you
ready? Standing with the feet hip width,
barbell in line with midfoot. My shins
are about one or here two inches away.
From here, I'm pushing my arms down. I'm
reaching. I'm not just hanging my arms.
I'm I'm reaching down. See my pecs,
right? So that's that's an action of
pecs, but also pecs and lats is reaching
down. And then armpits the pelvis. So So
it's this action shoulder joint
extension is lats. When the lats are on,
it does two things. It keeps the bar in
line with the midfoot, so close to the
body from start to finish. If the lats
are off, it'll drift away from your
body. That's another reason why I have
those shin pads. So, if it does come
close and and rubs up against my shins,
it's
fine. Um, the next thing that lats do is
they cross the longest distance of your
spine of all the muscles. Check this
out. The lats attach right here. So,
that's the lat lat. So, that's called
the humorous. It's on the outer lip. So,
that's the bicipital groove. move. It's
on the outer lip of that and it comes
underneath comes underneath and it
attaches to the top of the pelvis and on
some of these vertebrae on some people
it attaches to the bottom of the scapula
through a thing called thoracco lumbar
fascia. So it crosses from the front of
the humorus so here down to the top of
the pelvis. So it when that muscle
contracts it is bracing and prot and
holding in place or holding rigid every
single muscle that's underneath it. So
the strongest muscle to maintain a rigid
torso is not the erectus spine. A it's
not the abs, it's the lats. So if you're
not doing this cue of armpits to pelvis
or keeping that bar close to your body
or in line with your midoot with with
the lats, it's a weaker position. And
that's where you do things like that
whole, you know, fishing rod technique.
That's usually what happens when you're
not doing this queue, armpits to pelvis.
Okay, so let's do it again. Barbell in
line with midoot, feet hipwidth apart,
reaching down. So that's kind of lats,
but then when I grab the bar, I'm I'm
kind of, you know, armpits to pelvis.
Okay? So that's depression of the
scapula. It's not retraction of the
scapula. So don't squeeze your shoulder
blades together. Do you see that? Makes
my reach shorter. So shorter reach means
you need to travel further. So don't do
that. Right? So you want to reach down
and armpits to pelvis. Okay? Combined
with that brace that I told you about,
which is keeping those ribs down. And I
don't arch my back to get my body full
of air. I keep them down and I push with
a 360° outwards into that entire
belt. So something else that I combined
with that that I didn't want to mention
because I was in action is when I get to
that position, crown of the head towards
the ceiling.
Okay. So that's head up, fingers down.
Increase the distance between my top of
my head and my
fingertips and then push the world away.
So I think push, not pull. Okay, a lot
of times when like you you can do a
deadlift without pushing. That's called
a stifflegged deadlift. That's pure
pull. But you cannot do a deadlift
without the pull, right? So therefore,
think about the push. Don't think about
the pull. The pull is automatically
going to happen. And so that's why I say
the cube, push the world away, not pull
the bar up. Hope you liked that
tutorial, that crash course. You're
welcome.
170 twice because the first time I do it
might feel [__] Second time I do it
might feel easy. And then that'll be
where I determine the incremental
increase from there. So from here I'm
going blue plates. Let me have a look at
the technique. It's not the phone. It's
the cradle to make sure that it's
square. There we
go. See, I don't even take the belt off.
That's how loose I have it. I just keep
it there rested. And then when I'm about
to go, I lift
it. 170.
That felt
good. He's ignoring
me. I appreciate it if you watch me,
bro. Thanks.
[Music]
210.
Is this yours? They're both mine. Did
you drink some from it?
Yeah, it was nice actually. And uh yeah,
this is 4 minutes between sets. Yeah,
that's about right. Probably start going
a little bit longer after this one.
Where's my chalk? There it is.
feels
easy. I shouldn't say that. It looks
easy.
Feels
normal. Even feels heavy. But that's why
I like to record because it's like, does
that person look like 290s in the tank?
The answer is of course. Of course, you
idiot. So, what I want it to look like
is the same as every set. You know,
it'll slow down a little bit. So far,
it's not slowing down that much. I'm
sure that 290 will be a lot slower. What
was that? That was 250. So, next up,
270. Last warm up. I'll give myself I'll
give myself 6 minutes for this one.
What' you say? What do you do in your
rest time? Oh, I sit there and either do
nothing or I look at the video of what I
did last and I don't know. I guess it's
just my own calculations. So, I'm
calculating the speed of that and then
I'm thinking about what's it going to
feel like when there's 20 more kg on the
bar. It's probably going to be a little
bit
harder, which is fine. So, I've got to,
you know, brace myself to push a little
bit harder as well. It's still looking
very smooth and I want it to continue
looking smooth. Most of all, I don't
want to break down technique. So, that's
the important thing. Not getting the
weight up. Of course, I can get 290 up.
I want to get it up with good technique
because that's what I'm going to need to
do a big number in competition if I
compete. So, just so that you know, I'm
loosely thinking of competing again. Um,
but the number that I want to get, so my
last competition, I did a 330 kg
deadlift in the 110 class. And that
wasn't a max effort. I mean, it was my
last attempt because I thought that's
all I needed. Um, but when I look at the
videos, like there's more in the tank
anyway. So, it'll be cool to get 330 at
a lighter body weight, you know, and I
I'm I know that I can if I train right.
So, that's my goal is 330 deadlift,
which I did 300 a couple of weeks ago
after not deadlifting at all. Um, so I
know if I peak myself properly, um,
yeah, I think I can do that. So that's
when I'll make my decision. When I'm at
about, you know, 310, 320, that's when
I'm going to say, "Yeah, I'm ready." Not
310. When I'm at about 3
320. So I think I think give me about 2
months. Okay.
[Music]
So, I'm looking at last week's
280, and my thoughts on last week's 280
is it was clean but slow. So, um I want
this week's to look so 10 kg heavier,
but I'll be happy if it's exactly the
same speed. That'll be a nice
progression. I'll be even happier if
it's even faster. And then the question
is, what do I need to do to make it
better?
I need to push
harder. Seems funny. You know what I
mean? Like it just seems obvious. You
just need to push harder, but sometimes
that's the reality, right? I need to
drive my legs through that ground. Do
you notice how I said push harder, not
pull harder? Okay. So, it's not just
about working harder. It's like that's
the cue. My torso is locked in and I've
just got to drive my legs through the
ground. So, I want this to be 8 minutes
rest and we're about 7 minutes now. So,
I'm going to get up, get ready. Let's
make it clean.
Yeah. Yeah.
feedback from uh Musty, the
videographer. He said it looked pretty
slow off the beginning, but then it was
a pretty fast lockout. You know, we just
did a before and after. We just watched
last week's 280 kg. Um, now to him,
that's that's what he saw. For me, I
didn't see that, but it makes sense
because that's uh the technique that I
teach is to take your time, spend time
in maintaining position off the floor
and you will be rewarded with a stronger
lockout. So, sometimes it's faster off
the floor and that's when you let your
back round and you rip it off the
ground. And if your back rounds, it'll
fling off the floor really fast, but
then if your back is rounded, that's
when it's a really grindy, slow lockout.
I'll get the exact position. I go down
here, grab it, head to ceiling, and then
I go push up, and then it's like hard,
and then it's smooth lockout. Whereas,
if I go fast off the floor, and I just
go boom, and I go whack, and then I've
got to lock out my back, not the hips.
So, the hips are through, the hips are
the strongest part of the entire
structure. So, if you are rounding off
the floor, you're going to have to use
your upper back muscles and your erectus
spinate to lock it out. And that's where
people miss at the lockout because they
were too aggressive here. Boom. And
taking their body out of position.
Whereas if you are strong and you're
just you're holding that
technique, slow and then it's strong for
the lockout. So him telling me it feel
it looked slower off the floor, but then
it was very strong lockout. That's music
to my ears. That's how I want it. One
more set. I don't mind a bit of break
stuff.
Maybe we can
go. You know what I also don't like?
Limp
biscuit. I like them biscuit. Keep on
rolling, baby.
[Music]
Um, I don't know if that felt easier
than the set before. Felt the same. kind
of felt hard. I tried to I tried to
increase my
aggression
and I don't know it'll be good to do a
sideby-side comparison um just so that I
can you know this is like my own in in
study within study within person study
where I go let's do the before with no
music and let's do the after with music
and see who's stronger.
It's not fair actually a really hard st
I know. So it's fatigued state as well.
Hey, but either way that's good because
it was a fatigued but also submaximal,
right? So sometimes that's stimulating
like like in competition if to get a 330
you could logically say yeah 290 is the
opener. 290 310 330. Um you know by the
looks of this I would say I have the 310
today. Um not not a 330. I would say
that my limit would be about 310 today.
Not that I'm going to
test. Pretty good
position. Pretty good position. Okay.
But that's um that's my deadlift done.
Now I'm going to be doing some stiletto
squats. And instead of let me get my
equipment out so I can show you. Well,
there goes this belt. Now I don't use
this
belt. I use my squatting
belt. Everything special made that I use
from Pioneer. the best belt that money
can buy uh for powerlifting. Now, this
is 10 mil, right? I used to be about,
you know, the 13 mil because that's a,
you know, thicker, stiffer belt and you
want it to be as strong as possible. But
in my opinion, um this is not um like
just because it's thinner than the 13
mil, it doesn't mean have it stretches
more or has less carryover. I think it
stretches the same amount. I don't think
there is any stretch in this. And when
you have a little bit of a thicker belt,
it's just uncomfortable. Now, this 10
mil belt contours to the body a lot
better than a 13 mil stiff belt. So, if
you are on the market for a belt, my
first recommendation is to go Pioneer.
Like, you buy one and it lasts
forever. This is my baby. Black on
black, murdered out. What does it say?
Says Australian strength
coach. And look at the lever. It's like
you got increments here. you've got um
so so whenever I warm up for my squats,
I start here on the a looser setting and
then I get tighter and tighter and
tighter as I get to my top set and I go
quite tight. So this is my brace for the
belt. Sorry, this is my brace for the
squat. So it's it's slightly different.
So if I did that for the deadlift,
actually it's too tight and it'll
interfere with me achieving the right
position in a deadlift. Whereas uh with
the squat, I I don't want to curl over
as much. I don't want to be bending over
as much. I want to focus on being it's
still the same brace rib cage to pelvis,
but I want to maintain that position
from start to finish. And this is the
stronger brace when I'm loading my spine
uh for a squat. So, the brace remains
the same. Um I do I do the same thing. I
big breath into my
belly, not
here, right?
And ribs down and push into 360° into
that belt. and then maintain that
position. So maintain a
rigid torso from start to finish. So
what a lot of people do with a squat is
they go they arch because they don't
want to be rounded forward, right? So
they go they arch backwards. The problem
with that is as I told you with the
rectus abdominis, we're not contracting
those. We're we're elongating those.
We're lengthening those. We want to
contract those and they shorten when you
contract those. So there's a rectus
abdominis brace. The next thing is the
pelvis position. So when you arch
backwards, it anterly rotates your
pelvis, which changes it reduces the
amount of hip joint flexion that's
available to you. So you should try it
at home. So here's a test for you. Lean
up against the wall, right? And brace
with your ribs down. So piss up a wall
and lift your knee as high as you can.
That's how many degrees of hip joint
flexion you have, right? So you get a
little bit more when the the knee
slightly a outwards. So knees out or
abducted,
right? Next we'll go side on
arch. Piss up a wall, arch. Piss up a
wall, arch. Do you get it? So the more
you arch your back, the less range of
motion you have. And if you arch and you
try and go down, this is when you get
into
buttwink. And there is a loss of
tension, loss of brace. It's weaker. So
when we get our brace, what we're after
is stacked. So that's why we get the cue
of ribs down. ribs down, not because
ribs up hurts your back or anything like
that. It's because ribs down is what
will happen if you're contracting your
rectus abdominis correctly. And it also
changes the way that you position your
spine so that it is allowing you to
position your pelvis in a more neutral
position to allow more depth in that
bottom position. When I'm
arching, I'll get to that butt wink,
right? So, piss up a
wall, more range of motion. And that's
how you brace for a squat. stiletto
squats in my SBD sleeves. So, these are
uh very soft compared to what I've been
using, which is my Inza sleeves. So, a
lot of people talk about how much
carryover they get from Inza sleeves,
and um I definitely will admit they
definitely help a lot and it is a big
difference than uh you know, compared to
my SPD sleeves. However, we're going to
compare apples with apples now. And last
week, I did 200 kg for four reps on the
stiletto squat. You know, I also did
that after doing 280 kilogram deadlift
for two sets of one. So this week I went
a little bit heavier. I did 290 for two
sets of one. So maybe I'm a little bit
more fatigued and uh I don't know. And
maybe there's a big carryover with the
ines. Time will tell. So I'm going to
just act as though there is no
difference. Um and the number on the
program is 200 kg for five stiletto
squat. Uh we'll see how we go.
Um two sets. Two sets of
five. So, we're going to go 60
kg up in 20s. So, 60, 80, 100, 120, 40,
60, 80,
200. And we're going to do singles the
whole way up.
[Applause]
So, we just adjusted the rack height.
Um, when I first started, I had it on
the right rack height and then Musty
said, "Should we change it to a bit
higher because it's high bar?" I
thought, "Oh, yeah, sounds about right."
Because, you know, bending down too far
for unrackcking, you know, is harder.
Not much, but whatever. I'm just being
lazy. So, I thought, okay. And then, if
you saw that last set, I had to like it
kind of clipped because the heavier the
weight, the more it squashes your body
down, and then it makes it by the time
you get to the top weight. So, that was
only 140 kg. By the time you get to the
top weight, uh, it makes it difficult to
unrackck it. you have to stand up on
your toes, which you don't want to do.
So, whenever you're measuring your rack
height, it's better to be slightly too
low, then slightly too high. You do not
want to tippy toe. You don't want to get
up on your toes to to unrackck that
weight. You would you want to squat that
weight up and not don't be lazy. It's
safer and stronger way. Sorry. All good.
It's not your fault. Like you suggested,
I thought, "Oh, yeah. Sounds like a good
idea.
True.
Yeah. High bar squat. Uh Musi asked me,
should I put chalk on your back? Uh, no,
not necessary. The bar that I'm using is
a weightlifting bar as well. It's just
nicer. It's softer knurling and I don't
need the powerlifting knurling because I
don't need to grip it on my back. It's
resting on my traps. On a low bar squat,
you do want thicker knurling on the
barbell because you are gripping it on
your back. And having chalk on your back
can also help when you're going for a a
heavy lift, but unnecessary for a high
bar. Uh, same with wrist wraps. I'm
balancing it with my hands. I'm not like
a lot of the weight's not on my my
elbows. So, this is why you typically
don't get elbow pain or bicep pain or
wrist pain with a high bar squat. So, I
don't need wrist wraps, don't need
chalk, and I don't need uh aggressive
knurling on the barbell. It's the same
bracing and same Oh, yeah. Same bracing.
So, elbows back and down. So, elbows
back, his midback, down his lats. So,
that's got nothing to do with how strong
the, you know, where the barbell is on
my back. like it gives you a better
shelf because those muscles are being
contracted, but that's to control the
rigidity of my torso. And that remains
the same for high bar or low bar.
Next set is uh moment of truth. So if I
get So it's 200 kg that's the top set.
Last week I got four reps and it was
pretty hard but that was with the ines.
this
week. If I equal that, um, it'll be
nice because I can say that I'm still
strong in absence of, you know, stiff
knee sleeves. Although the stiff knee
sleeves help, I always say, you know,
like they help, but if you want the
equipment to be strong, you need to be
strong. So, if I can get the same
amount, I'll be happy. If I can get
five, I'll be very, very happy. And
that's what I'll be going for. Let's
see. If I get four, it's actually
good,
but I have high standards. And if I get
four, I will be
sad. Even though like I don't really
deserve to um be stronger with these
sleeves. You do get a a carryover out of
the Inz. So, I need to really step it up
with this. I'm going to turn on some
tunes. And I don't want four reps. I
want five
reps. This could be ugly.
um 18. So, it's only been 4
minutes less cuz that was a minute of
recording. So, that's 3 minutes.
[Applause]
Feel like [__]
That's a win, isn't it? Five reps. So,
that's one extra rep on what I did last
week with the really, really strong Inza
sleeves. So, yes, they help, but you
know, everyone says whatever number that
people get out of it, 20 kg, 10 kg, I
don't know. I don't know. But that just
showed me
that it's the lifter, not the sleeves.
Of course, the sleeves help, don't get
me wrong, but I am very happy with that.
So happy that I'm going to celebrate by
going straight to my accessories cuz I
had to dig deep for that
one. And I'll make up for it on my next
squat day. So, this is a deadlift day
where I still do squat accessories. On
my squat day, I go my low bar paws work
and I do more squat work. So, that extra
set, that is a that was an RP that was
limit. I don't think I had a sixth rep
there,
but yeah. So, I'm not going to
completely stop. I'm going to do some
really, really easy stuff. Leg extension
and hamstring curl, and then we're done.
Let's take this off. Now, it's going to
be leisurely work. Hope you enjoyed that
session. I'm very happy with that. 290
for two sets of one and then one set of
five on 200 kg stiletto squat.
Technically, that's a PB.
And uh it's an even bigger win because I
use the soft spd sleeves. And that was a
great session. Hope you enjoyed it. And
I'm going to see you guys next time.